README.md, before:

sentiment-analyser
==================

A sentiment analysis tool for online data sources written in Python

This script takes a provided url, extracts all the textual data from it and compares all the words to lists of positive and negative words. The end result shows a percentage of words in the source data which are positive and negative in relation to the total number of matches (so the two percentages add up to 100%).

This is in no way intended to be accurate or to predict the actual sentiment of source data. Sentiment analysis is extremely complex and this tool is a simple experiment. The words included in the positive and negative lists are taken from http://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/FBS/sentiment-analysis.html

The following paper has more information with regards to these lists:

Minqing Hu and Bing Liu. "Mining and Summarizing Customer Reviews." 
Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining (KDD-2004), Aug 22-25, 2004, Seattle, 
Washington, USA

Usage
-----------

In order to use this script locally, Python as well as the Beautiful Soup library need to be installed. Future development plan involves hosting the tool online as a mini web application, so that no local installation is necessary (a possible host cadidate is Google App Engine).

Commit message:

updated script, lists of positive and negative words and readme

README.md, after:

sentiment-analyser
==================

A sentiment analysis tool for online data sources written in Python

This script takes a provided url, extracts all the textual data from it and compares all the words to lists of positive and negative words. The end result shows a percentage of words in the source data which are positive and negative in relation to the total number of matches (so the two percentages add up to 100%).

The only supported language is English. The original lists contained mostly American English spelling, so British equivalents have been added to them. Some words were taken out as they were deemed to make the list overly US-centric (these included the following entries: anti-american, anti-israeli, anti-us, anti-white).

This is in no way intended to be accurate or to predict the actual sentiment of source data. Sentiment analysis is extremely complex and this tool is a simple experiment. The words included in the positive and negative lists are taken from http://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/FBS/sentiment-analysis.html

The following paper has more information with regards to these lists:

Minqing Hu and Bing Liu. "Mining and Summarizing Customer Reviews." 
Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining (KDD-2004), Aug 22-25, 2004, Seattle, 
Washington, USA

Usage
-----------

In order to use this script locally, Python as well as the Beautiful Soup library need to be installed.

Future development
-----------

Future development plans involve hosting the tool online as a mini web application, so that no local installation is necessary (possible host candidate is Google App Engine).

Graphical represenation of results is another possibility (perhaps using d3.js).
